Hyperlane Bridge Guide (#108)
rsksmart/devportal: docs/04-resources/04-tutorials/hyperlane-bridge.md

---
sidebar_position: 300
title: Run Hyperlane Bridge on Rootstock
sidebar_label: Hyperlane Bridge

> tags: [Guides, hyperlane, rootstock, bridge, tutorial, rsk, blockchain, relayer, validator, wrap routes, interoperability, cross chain, defi, permissionless, mailbox, messaging]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: [hyperlane, rootstock, tutorials, rsk, blockchain, interoperability, cross chain bridge, defi]
```

Reviewer: Please add the article to the tutorial index

<img width="797" alt="Screenshot 2024-09-19 at 13 03 45" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a5cbcbd7-661c-4663-b8c0-73ec31da7570">

Author: Done!

description: "Hyperlane is the open interoperability framework to connect anywhere onchain."
---

## What is Hyperlane 

[Hyperlane](https://www.hyperlane.xyz/) is the first universal and permissionless interoperability layer built for the modular blockchain stack.

Deploying Hyperlane on Rootstock, allows to build seamless communication from Rootstock to any other chain on which Hyperlane has been deployed. 

> > This tutorial helps to get started on Hyperlane using Rootstock blockchain to layout the foundations for bridge applications such as: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial guides you through the process of setting up Hyperlane on the Rootstock blockchain to create seamless asset bridging between Rootstock and other compatible chains. You will learn how to install Hyperlane, configure custom chains, deploy contracts, and run validator and relayer nodes.
```

Author: Done!

1) Warp Routes, which allow native and ERC20 tokens to move seamlessly across chains such (e.g. Sending ERC20 tokens to/from Rootstock to BNB chian)
2) Interchain accounts, which allows an account on one chain (e.g. a DAO) to make smart contract calls on remote chains

> 3) Interchain queries, which allows an account on one chain such as Rootstock to make view(read calls) on remote chains such as BNB chain or any other EVM compatible chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) Interchain queries, which allows an account on one chain such as Rootstock to make view (read calls) on remote chains such as BNB chain or any other EVM compatible chain
```

Author: Done!

## Hyperlane CLI

The Hyperlane CLI is the official command-line tool for deploying Hyperlane contracts to new chains. It also includes utilities for interacting with deployed contracts and registries.

> Rootstock testnet and mainnet both are integrated in the CLI via the Hyperlane [registry](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-registry).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both Rootstock testnet and mainnet are integrated in the CLI via the [Hyperlane registry](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-registry).
```

Author: Done!

> Install hyperlane cli using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@hyperlane-xyz/cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started, install the hyperlane cli using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@hyperlane-xyz/cli).
```

Author: Done!

> #### Installation instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installation
```

Reviewer: There are two options for installing the Hyperlane CLI:

Author: Done!

- Global installaton

  Use `-g` flag to globally install Hyperlane cli and access anywhere in your terminal

  ```bash
  npm i @hyperlane-xyz/cli -g
  ```

- Install within a directory

>   Open your terminal window and make a directory to install Hyperlane cli within that directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In the terminal, make a directory to install Hyperlane cli:
```

Author: Done!

  ```bash

>   mkdir hyperlane_cli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mkdir hyperlane_cli
```

Author: Done!

  npm i @hyperlane-xyz/cli --save
  ```

  This will install Hyperlane cli within the `hyperlane_cli` directory inside `node_modules`. This is the most recommended way to use Hyperlane cli. Now test the installation by running following command inside `hyperlane_cli` directory:

  ```bash

>   cd hyperlane_cli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: No need for changing directory

Author: Done!

  npx hyperlane --version
  ```

> Note: If you have installed Hyperlane cli within a directory by following second option then for the rest of this tutorial use `npx hyperlane` instead of just `hyperlane` in terminal so that npx could locate the cli within the local `node_modules`. For global installation no need to use `npx` before `hyperlane` command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
If you installed Hyperlane CLI within a directory using the second option, you'll need to use `npx hyperlane` instead of just `hyperlane` in your terminal. This ensures that npx can locate the CLI within your local node_modules directory. If you installed Hyperlane CLI globally, you can use `hyperlane` directly. 
:::
```

## Registry

Let’s create a custom chain config, run:

```
// Use `npx hyperlane` in case of local installation
hyperlane registry init

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Replace values with the output below:
```

> Now, under $HOME/.hyperlane/chains you will find a new folder named with your custom chain’s name, and a file named metadata.yaml within that folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Output:

```
# yaml-language-server: $schema=../schema.json
name: rootstocktestnet
displayName: rootstocktestnet
chainId: 31
domainId: 31
protocol: ethereum
rpcUrls:
  - http: https://public-node.testnet.rsk.co
nativeToken:
  symbol: ETH
  name: Ether
  decimals: 18
transactionOverrides:
  gasLimit: 6800000
```

> 

Reviewer: - Under $HOME/.hyperlane/chains you will find a new folder named with your custom chain’s name, and a file named metadata.yaml within that folder.

- On Mac, use the following commands to view the folder.

```
ls $HOME/.hyperlane/chains
cd $HOME/.hyperlane/chains/rootstocktestnet
```

Open the folder in your code editor to view the file: `metadata.yml`.

> Note: Append `transactionOverrides` gasLimit if it's not automatically added by cli by editing the metadata.yaml file at: $HOME/.hyperlane/chains

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::tip[Tip]
Append `transactionOverrides` gasLimit if it's not automatically added by cli by editing the metadata.yaml file at: $HOME/.hyperlane/chains

:::

```

Reference: https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/deploy-hyperlane#1-registry

## Core init
Next, let’s configure, deploy and test your custom chain’s core contracts.

#### Initialize configuration

> From your local environment, set the private key or seed phrase of your funded deployer address to HYP_KEY. For example: export HYP_KEY=`<YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To initialize, set the private key or seed phrase of your funded deployer address to HYP_KEY in a local environment variable. For example: export HYP_KEY=`<YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY>`. 
```

// Use `npx hyperlane` in case of local installation
hyperlane core init
```

Output

```
Hyperlane Core Configure
------------------------
Creating a new core deployment config...
? Detected owner address as 0xd624E015A308d7917F07424bb4985a024af1188a from signer, is this correct? yes
Creating trustedRelayerIsm...
Created trustedRelayerIsm!
Creating merkleTreeHook...
Created merkleTreeHook!
Creating protocolFee...
Created protocolFee!
Core config is valid, writing to file ./configs/core-config.yaml:

 owner: "0xd624E015A308d7917F07424bb4985a024af1188a"
    defaultIsm:
      type: trustedRelayerIsm
      relayer: "0xd624E015A308d7917F07424bb4985a024af1188a"
    defaultHook:
      type: merkleTreeHook
    requiredHook:
      owner: "0xd624E015A308d7917F07424bb4985a024af1188a"
      type: protocolFee
      beneficiary: "0xd624E015A308d7917F07424bb4985a024af1188a"
      maxProtocolFee: "100000000000000000"
      protocolFee: "0"

    
✅ Successfully created new core deployment config.

```
Reference: https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/deploy-hyperlane#2-core

## Deploy contracts

To deploy contracts, run:

```
// Use `npx hyperlane` in case of local installation
hyperlane core deploy
```

> 

Reviewer: Output:

```bash
hyperlane core deploy
Hyperlane CLI
{"level":30,"time":1726741403674,"pid":51011,"msg":"Your CLI version: 5.1.2, latest version: 5.2.0"}
? Please enter private key or use the HYP_KEY environment variable.

Hyperlane Core deployment
------------------------------------------------
? Select network type Testnet
? Select chain to connect: rootstocktestnet
? Do you want to use an API key to verify on this (rootstocktestnet) chain's block explorer no

Deployment plan
===============
Transaction signer and owner of new contracts: 0xA0365b08A56c75701415610Bf49B30DbfA285ac4
Deploying core contracts to network: rootstocktestnet
┌────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (index)                │ Values                               │
├────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┤
│ Name                   │ 'rootstocktestnet'                   │
│ Display Name           │ 'rootstocktestnet'                   │
│ Chain ID               │ 31                                   │
│ Domain ID              │ 31                                   │
│ Protocol               │ 'ethereum'                           │
│ JSON RPC URL           │ 'https://public-node.testnet.rsk.co' │
│ Native Token: Symbol   │ 'ETH'                                │
│ Native Token: Name     │ 'Ether'                              │
│ Native Token: Decimals │ 18                                   │
└────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────┘
Note: There are several contracts required for each chain, but contracts in your provided registries will be skipped.
? Mailbox already exists at 0xCfA3E807DEF506Db480328cB975fC9108eb59e52. Are you sure you want 
to deploy a new mailbox and overwrite existing registry artifacts? yes
? Is this deployment plan correct? yes
Running pre-flight checks for chains...
✅ Chains are valid
✅ Signer is valid
✅ Balances are sufficient
🚀 All systems ready, captain! Beginning deployment...
Deploying to rootstocktestnet from https://explorer.rootstock.io/address/0xA0365b08A56c75701415610Bf49B30DbfA285ac4
Deploying staticMerkleRootMultisigIsmFactory on rootstocktestnet with constructor args ()...
Pending https://explorer.rootstock.io/tx/0x53e9c7b043964bd6d28540a83a1f414b159af6a03fcbeccebbf54ba1648c58fc (waiting 1 blocks for confirmation)
....
```

You should see the following response:

```bash
Done updating chain rootstocktestnet at filesystem registry
✅ Core contract deployments complete:

    staticMerkleRootMultisigIsmFactory: "0xe43c9a892c0747020892ca204FfB04E0b25D0d09"
    staticMessageIdMultisigIsmFactory: "0x384930CCe5a044074c30bb7108284ea92728308c"
    staticAggregationIsmFactory: "0xa3725eAC59776F075dC5bb02D2997a7feb326595"
    staticAggregationHookFactory: "0xb58F0aB24165a33ae0167C9B036de7C4b1626450"
    domainRoutingIsmFactory: "0x2D687f5B6f868F510B9F3b7714A748Fe9492b848"
    proxyAdmin: "0xB820707a39eeE38389601cb801146aCaDdE8905e"
    mailbox: "0x7C7e9d0578A2CC3FCd086045265d667901eF7D2c"
    interchainAccountRouter: "0xc84693adE9c3F2421da4522E585f1380FC1Ef1F4"
    interchainAccountIsm: "0x102C9C8527797a2eD435A8d08EFF96e5D2D46638"
    validatorAnnounce: "0x04756442951D09f61362AFd9A2Ff48653eaa2E06"
    testRecipient: "0xc50EE7C40602f4c6425f25a139939bb8C5236290"
    
```

Reviewer: Note that deployment can take a few minutes.

> Under $HOME/.hyperlane/chains you will find a new folder named with your custom chain’s name, and a file named `addresses.yaml` within that folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under $HOME/.hyperlane/chains you will find a new folder named with your custom chain’s name, and a file named `addresses.yaml` within that folder.
```

Here is the Rootstock metadata and addresses.yml:

- [Rootstock testnet metadata](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-registry/tree/main/chains/rootstocktestnet)
- [Rootstock mainnet metadata](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-registry/tree/main/chains/rootstock)

> So far we have successfully deployed the Hyperlane contracts on Rootstock chain. The next step is to run Hyperlane relayer and validator nodes so that message could be sent from source chain to destination chain. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have successfully deployed the Hyperlane contracts on Rootstock testnet. The next step is to run Hyperlane relayer and validator nodes so that the message could be sent from source chain to destination chain. 
```

> ## Run validator node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running a validator node
```

> Validators provide the security for messages sent from your chain to remote chains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validators provide the security for messages sent from your chain to remote chains. To get started:
```

- Clone the [hyperlane monorepo](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-monorepo)

> - Build and run the [validator](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-monorepo/blob/main/rust/README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Build and run the [validator](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-monorepo/blob/main/rust/README.md#running-locally) using the steps listed in the README.md.
```

> - Use this reference script to build and run the validator for Rootstock

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the reference script below to build and run the validator for Rootstock.
```

> - Add rootstock contract addresses and metadata in ./config/testnet4_config.json file located in your filesystem inside Rust project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add rootstock contract addresses and metadata in `./config/testnet4_config.json` file located in your filesystem inside the Rust project.
```

> - Add rootstock contract addresses and metadata in ./config/testnet4_config.json file located in your filesystem inside Rust project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the Rootstock contract addresses and metadata in `./config/testnet4_config.json` file located in your filesystem inside Rust project. See [Rootstock Metadata and Addresses](#rootstock-metadata-and-addresses)
```

- [Example config.json file](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-monorepo/blob/main/rust/config/testnet_config.json)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a validator node, enter the following commands:
```

```
cargo build --release --bin relayer
CONFIG_FILES=./config/testnet4_config.json
./target/release/validator --validator.key 0x... --db ./hyperlane_db --originChainName rootstock --reorgPeriod 2 --checkpointSyncer.type localStorage --checkpointSyncer.path ./checkpointSyncer
```

> See full validator configurations [here](https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/guides/deploy-hyperlane-local-agents#3-run-a-validator)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> View full validator configurations in [Run a Validator](https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/guides/deploy-hyperlane-local-agents#3-run-a-validator)
```

> ## Run Relayer node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running a Relayer node
```

> Relayers deliver interchain messages sent between the local and remote chains. Learn more about what relayers do [here](https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/protocol/agents/relayer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relayers deliver interchain messages sent between the local and remote chains. Learn more about [what relayers do](https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/protocol/agents/relayer).
```

- Build and run the [relayer](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-monorepo/blob/main/rust/README.md)
- Use this reference script to build and run the relayer for Rootstock
- Add rootstock contract addresses and metadata in ./config/testnet4_config.json file located in your filesystem inside Rust project.

- [Example config.json file](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-monorepo/blob/main/rust/config/testnet_config.json)

> 

Reviewer: To run a relayer node, enter the following commands:

```
CONFIG_FILES=./config/testnet4_config.json ./target/release/relayer --db ./hperlane_db --relayChains rootstock,bsctestnet --defaultSigner.key 0x... --allowLocalCheckpointSyncers true --checkpointSyncer.type localStorage --checkpointSyncer.path ./hyperlaneSyncer --gasPaymentEnforcement '[{"type": "none", "matchingList": []}, {"type": "minimum", "payment": 0}]' 

```

> See full validator configurations [here](https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/guides/deploy-hyperlane-local-agents#4-run-a-relayer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View the full [validator configurations](https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/guides/deploy-hyperlane-local-agents#4-run-a-relayer)
```

> ## Send a message 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sending a message 
```

> You can check everything is working correctly by sending a test message between pairs of chains. Initiate the message with the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify that everything is working correctly by sending a test message between pairs of chains. To verify, initiate the message with the CLI.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

npx hyperlane send message --origin rootstock --destination bsctestnet --key 0x...

```

See more details [here](https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/your-first-message) about sending a message.

## Wrap route setup

> Until now we have Hyperlane mailbox and core contracts deployed on Rootstock chain, it’s time to set up token bridging between Rootstock chain and any other Hyperlane chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Until now we have a Hyperlane mailbox and core contracts deployed on Rootstock, it’s time to set up token bridging between Rootstock chain and other Hyperlane chains.
```

> See [full guide](https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/guides/deploy-warp-route) for wrap route setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [full guide](https://docs.hyperlane.xyz/docs/guides/deploy-warp-route) for how to do a wrap route setup.
```

Author: Done!

---
sidebar_position: 300
title: Run Hyperlane Bridge on Rootstock
sidebar_label: Hyperlane Bridge
tags: [hyperlane, rootstock, tutorials, rsk, blockchain, interoperability, cross chain bridge, defi]
description: "Hyperlane is the open interoperability framework to connect anywhere onchain."
---

> ## What is Hyperlane 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is Hyperlane? 
```

Author: Done!

Some example dApps that can be developed using Hyperlane bridge:

1) Warp Routes, which allow native and ERC20 tokens to move seamlessly across chains such (e.g. Sending ERC20 tokens to/from Rootstock to BNB chian)
2) Interchain accounts, which allows an account on one chain (e.g. a DAO) to make smart contract calls on remote chains
3) Interchain queries, which allows an account on one chain such as Rootstock to make view (read calls) on remote chains such as BNB chain or any other EVM compatible chain

## Hyperlane CLI

The Hyperlane CLI is the official command-line tool for deploying Hyperlane contracts to new chains. It also includes utilities for interacting with deployed contracts and registries.

Both Rootstock testnet and mainnet are integrated in the CLI via the [Hyperlane registry](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-registry).

To get started, install the hyperlane cli using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@hyperlane-xyz/cli).

> #### Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installation
```

Author: Done!
